# gps-share

Utility to share your GPS device on local network.

Git master build status: [![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/zeenix/gps-share.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/zeenix/gps-share)

## Goals

gps-share has two goals:

* Share your GPS device on the local network so that all machines in your home
  or office can make use of it.
* Enable support for standalone (i-e not part of a cellular modem) GPS devices
  in Geoclue. Since Geoclue has been able to make use of network NMEA sources
  since 2015, gps-share works out of the box with Geoclue.

The latter means that it is a replacement for
[GPSD](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gpsd) and
[Gypsy](https://gypsy.freedesktop.org/wiki/). While ["why not GPSD?" has already
been documented](https://gypsy.freedesktop.org/why-not-gpsd.html), Gypsy has
been unmaintained for many years now. I did not feel like reviving a dead
project and I really wanted to code in Rust so I decided to create gps-share.

![Screenshot of gps-share in action](data/screenshot.png "Screenshot of GNOME
Maps using gps-share on the fast train from Gothenburg to Stockholm")

## Dependencies

While cargo manages the Rust crates gps-share depend on, you'll also need the
following on your host:

* libdbus
* libudev
* libcap
* xz-libs

## Supported devices

gps-share currently only supports GPS devices that present themselves as serial
port (RS232). Many USB are expected to work out of the box but bluetooth devices
need manual intervention to be mounted as serial port devices through rfcomm
command. The following command worked on my Fedora 25 machine for a TomTom
Wireless GPS MkII.

    sudo rfcomm connect 0 00:0D:B5:70:54:75

gps-share can autodetect the device to use if it's already mounted as a serial
port but it assumes a baudrate of 38400. You can manually set the device node to
use by passing the device node path as argument and set the baudrate using the
'-b' commandline option. For example for the TomTom Wireless GPS MkII device,
you'll nee to set the baudrate to 115200.

Pass '--help' for a full list of supported commandline options.

## Permisions

gps-share will need read and write access to device nodes. Adding your user to
'dialout' group gives you this access for USB devices on Fedora hosts but it is
not the case for the /dev/rfcomm0 device created by the above mentioned command.
For those devices, you'll either need to run gps-share as root or set permission
on /dev/rfcomm0.

## Supported operating systems

gps-share is targetted specifically for Linux. It may or may not work on other
POSIX hosts. Patches to add/fix support for non-Linux systems, are more than
welcome.

Remember to configure your firewall to allow your service to be reachable on the
local network, as needed.

## Building from source

Just like most Rust projects, gps-share uses cargo build system so building is
as simple as:

    cargo build

Once built, binary is in `target/debug/gps-share`. If you want to build
gps-share for production use, with all optimizations:

    cargo build --release

which puts the binary in `target/release/gps-share`. You can also run the binary
directly (without building first):

    cargo run

If you need to pass any arguments or options to the commandline, you do:

    cargo run -- [ARGUMENT1 [ARGUMENT2 [..]]]

To see all supported options and arguments, run:

    cargo run -- --help

## License

gps-share is licensed under GNU GPLv2+. Please refer to [LICENCE file](LICENSE)
for details.

## Hardware donations

If you'd like some particular devices supported by gps-share, I do accept hardware
donations. Please contact through email (on my github profile & git commits) to
request my postal address to send the hardware to. If you can send through DHL,
use the following address:

DHL customer: 904 538 947
DHL Packstation 179
Germany

*PLEASE NOTE:* This address only works if you send through DHL.

Thanks.
